[DOCS-14257] Add Pipeline Simulation doc (#37355)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/configuration/pipeline_simulation.md

---
title: Pipeline Simulation
disable_toc: false

> private: true

Reviewer: Missing `description:` field. Even for private pages, this improves AI readability — it helps LLMs understand page context when content is retrieved in chunks.
```suggestion
private: true
description: Use Pipeline Simulation to preview how your processors modify your log data before deploying your pipeline configuration.
```

further_reading:
- link: "/observability_pipelines/configuration/set_up_pipelines/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up pipelines"
- link: "/observability_pipelines/configuration/live_capture/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Live Capture"
products:
- name: Logs
  icon: logs
  url: /observability_pipelines/configuration/?tab=logs#pipeline-types
- name: Metrics
  icon: metrics
  url: /observability_pipelines/configuration/?tab=metrics#pipeline-types
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">Pipeline Simulation is in Preview. Reach out to your account manager to request access.</div>

Reviewer: Most preview features use the standard Datadog preview shortcode rather than a plain `alert-info` div. Is it intentional to not use the standard preview callout here?

Author: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Join the Preview!">}}
Pipeline Simulation is in Preview. Reach out to your account manager to request access.
{{< /callout >}}
```

## Overview

> When you configure or edit a pipeline in Observability Pipelines, you often have to update filter queries, sampling rules, or Packs that transform your telemetry. These changes can impact downstream monitors, dashboards, and detection rules. Therefore, it's important to test and validate how your changes affect your production data before you deploy those changes.

Reviewer: "Packs" is linked on second mention (line 27) but not here on first mention.
```suggestion
When you configure or edit a pipeline in Observability Pipelines, you often have to update filter queries, sampling rules, or [Packs][12] that transform your telemetry. These changes can impact downstream monitors, dashboards, and detection rules. Therefore, it's important to test and validate how your changes affect your production data before you deploy those changes.
```

> Use Pipeline Simulation to preview how your processors, volume control rules, and [Packs][12] modify your log data before deploying your pipeline configuration. This helps ensure your processors target the right data and modify your logs as expected. You can test your configuration with live logs sent through the pipeline or import your own sample data.

Reviewer: "This helps ensure your processors target the right data and modify your logs as expected" is redundant with the preceding sentence.
```suggestion
Use Pipeline Simulation to preview how your processors, volume control rules, and [Packs][12] modify your log data before deploying your pipeline configuration. You can test your configuration with live logs sent through the pipeline or import your own sample data.
```

Author: I'm going to leave this because PM requested this sentence :)

To use Pipeline Simulation:

> 1. [Capture a snapshot of your data](#capture-data-for-a-pipeline-simulation).

Reviewer: These steps summarize the workflow at a high level, then the detailed procedures follow in separate sections. But without a signpost, I felt a little confused -- like I might need to keep bouncing back to the overview to track progress. I think a brief sentence after the list, something like "The following sections walk through each of these steps in detail.", might help to signal that the page covers these in order.

Will leave to you to decide if that's helpful/needed!

Author: Added a sentence below

1. [Run a simulation with that data for your processor configuration](#run-a-pipeline-simulation).

> 1. Inspect the data that the processor group received and the modified data after it was processed. Confirm that the data modified after processing is as expected. If it is not, update your processors and run another simulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Inspect the data the processor group received and the resulting output. Confirm the processed data is what you expect. If it is not, update your processors and run another simulation.
```

1. After you validate that the processed data is what you expect, deploy the changes to production.

The following example of Pipeline Simulation shows an unparsed log that a processor group receives (Entry) and the parsed output after the log is processed and tagged (Exit).

{{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_overview.png" alt="Pipeline Simulation showing an unparsed log in the Entry column and the parsed output in the Exit column." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Permissions

Only users with the `Observability Pipelines Live Capture Write` permission can set up captures. Users with the `Observability Pipelines Live Capture Read` permission can only view the events that have already been captured. See [Observability Pipelines Permissions][1] for a list of permissions for Observability Pipelines assets.

> Datadog Admins have read and write permissions by default. Standard users only have read permission by default. See [Access Control][2] for more information about default Datadog roles and how to create custom roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog Admins have read and write permissions by default. Standard users have only read permission by default. See [Access Control][2] for more information about default Datadog roles and how to create custom roles.
```

### Add domains to firewall allowlist

> If you want to use Pipeline Simulation and are using a firewall, you must add these domains to the allowlist:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a firewall, add these domains to the allowlist:
```

    - For more information on creating queries, see [Search Syntax for Logs][6] or [Search Syntax for Metrics][7].
1. (Optional) Enter a capture duration (in seconds or minutes) for how long you want events to be captured.
    - Minimum duration (default, if no duration is specified): 30 seconds
    - Maximum duration: 300 seconds (5 minutes)
1. Click **Capture**.

### Import your own sample data for a simulation

To import sample data for your pipeline simulation:

1. For an inactive or draft pipeline, if the pipeline does not have saved data, click **Import Data**. Otherwise, click the down arrow next to **Live Capture** and select **Import Sample Data**.
1. In the modal, drag and drop your sample data files or browse for them, or click the **Paste** tab to paste your sample data. **Note**: Sample data must be in a JSON or JSONL file. See [Sample file import specifications](#sample-file-import-specifications) for more details.
1. Click **Confirm**.

#### Sample file import specifications

##### JSON sample data format

When you import sample data in JSON format, the data must be:

- Structured as a set of JSON objects wrapped in an array
- Comma separated between each log event

> Below is an example set of logs in JSON you can import for a simulation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example set of logs in JSON you can import for a simulation:
```

```json
[
  {
    "id": "abcd",
    "content": {
      "timestamp": "2026-05-27T19:41:46.609Z",
      "tags": [
        "env:prod",
        "service:web-store",
        "source:ruby"
      ],
      "host": "123",
      "service": "web-store",
      "message": "UnhandledInternalServiceError: Payment service reported 500 error code.",
      "attributes": {
        "transaction_id": "abc123",
        "shopist": {
          "webstore": {
            "merchant": {
              "plan_type": "m2m",
              "tier": "enterprise",
              "store_name": "ElectroNova"
            }
          },
          "customer": {
            "name": "Pam Jones",
            "location": "San Francisco, California"
          }
        },
        "level": "error",
        "logger": {
          "name": "ShoppingCartController"
        },
        "status": "error"
      }
    }
  }
]
```

##### JSONL sample data format

A JSONL file must contain multiple JSON objects, where each object is on its own line, separated by a newline.

> An example JSONL file you can import for a capture:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example JSONL file you can import for a simulation:
```

```

### Reuse previously saved data for your simulation

After you use Live Capture to pull data from your pipeline, the results are stored for 72 hours in the Datadog platform and can be used for simulations. To use previously captured data for your pipeline simulation:

1. Click the down arrow next to **Live Capture** and select **See Saved Samples**.
1. Click **Use as Sample Data** for the live capture or previously imported data you want to use.

{{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_saved_samples.png" alt="The Saved Samples view with the Use as Sample Data button for a previous capture." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Run a pipeline simulation

After you have captured data for your pipeline simulation, edit your pipeline processors and run a simulation.

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines][3].
1. Select your pipeline and click **Edit Pipeline** on the top right side of the page.
1. On the pipeline edit page, click **Edit** on a processor group to add or edit processors in your pipeline.
1. On the left side of the Pipeline Simulation page, select the **Processor group** with the processors you want to update, test, and validate.

>     - You can hover over **Processor Group** to see a snapshot of where the processors are in the pipeline.

Reviewer: "**Processor group**" (this line) and "**Processor Group**" (sub-bullet) use different capitalization for the same UI element — use whichever matches the exact label in the UI. Also, the sub-bullet reads awkwardly as a separate item; consider folding it into the step text.
```suggestion
1. On the left side of the Pipeline Simulation page, select the **Processor group** with the processors you want to update, test, and validate. Hover over a processor group to see a snapshot of where its processors sit in the pipeline.
```

Author: Taking the suggestion but also editing it a bit.

```suggestion
1. In the **Processor Group** dropdown menu on the left side of the Pipeline Simulation page, select the processor group with the processors you want to update and test. You can hover over **Processor Group** to see a snapshot of where the processors are in the pipeline.
```

1. Click **Preview** at the bottom of the processors panel to run the simulation.
  {{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_preview.png" alt="The Preview button at the bottom of the processors panel." style="width:60%;" >}}
1. After the simulation is complete, you can:
    - See the log data that the processor received and sent out.
    - Enter a free text search query to find specific logs that were captured. The query searches all attributes and tags in the logs.
    - Use the dropdown menu to show events based on status:
        - `Modified only` shows only modified events.
        - `Unmodified only` shows only unmodified events.
        - `Rerouted only` shows only logs rerouted to an overflow destination by the [Quota processor][8].
        - `Created only` shows only:
            - Metrics generated from logs with the [Generate Logs-Based Metrics][9] processor.
            - Logs created by the [Split Array][10] processor.
        - `Dropped only` shows only dropped events.

>     - Use the dropdown menu to show `Logs only`, `Metrics only`, or `All telemetry` events. `Metrics only` shows events only from the [Generate Logs-Based Metrics][9] processor.

Reviewer: This bullet and the one above it both begin "Use the dropdown menu to show..." but refer to different dropdowns (one filters by status, the other by telemetry type). If the dropdowns have distinct labels in the UI, use those labels to differentiate them.

## Overview

When you configure or edit a pipeline in Observability Pipelines, you often have to update filter queries, sampling rules, or [Packs][12] that transform your telemetry. These changes can impact downstream monitors, dashboards, and detection rules. Therefore, it's important to test and validate how your changes affect your production data before you deploy those changes.

Use Pipeline Simulation to preview how your processors, volume control rules, and [Packs][12] modify your log data before deploying your pipeline configuration. This helps ensure your processors target the right data and modify your logs as expected. You can test your configuration with live logs sent through the pipeline or import your own sample data.

To use Pipeline Simulation:

1. [Capture a snapshot of your data](#capture-data-for-a-pipeline-simulation).
1. [Run a simulation with that data for your processor configuration](#run-a-pipeline-simulation).
1. Inspect the data the processor group received and the resulting output. Confirm the processed data is what you expect. If it is not, update your processors and run another simulation.

> 1. After you validate that the processed data is what you expect, deploy the changes to production.

Author: ```suggestion
1. After you validate that the processed data is what you expect, deploy the changes to production.

This document goes over each of those steps in detail.
```

    - **Run an end-to-end preview simulation**: Enable the **End-to-End Preview** toggle to run a simulation through all processor groups and see the data that is sent to the destination. See [End-to-end preview](#end-to-end-preview) for more information.
  {{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_end_to_end_toggle.png" alt="The End-to-End Preview toggle on the Pipeline Simulation page." style="width:100%;" >}}
1. Click **Preview** at the bottom of the processors panel to run the simulation.
  {{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_preview.png" alt="The Preview button at the bottom of the processors panel." style="width:60%;" >}}
1. After the simulation is complete, you can:
    - See the log data that the processor received and sent out.
    - Enter a free text search query to find specific logs that were captured. The query searches all attributes and tags in the logs.

>     - Use the dropdown menu to show events based on status:

Author: ```suggestion
    - Use the **All events** dropdown menu to view events by status:
```

        - `Modified only` shows only modified events.
        - `Unmodified only` shows only unmodified events.
        - `Rerouted only` shows only logs rerouted to an overflow destination by the [Quota processor][8].
        - `Created only` shows only:
            - Metrics generated from logs with the [Generate Logs-Based Metrics][9] processor.
            - Logs created by the [Split Array][10] processor.
        - `Dropped only` shows only dropped events.

>     - Use the dropdown menu to show `Logs only`, `Metrics only`, or `All telemetry` events. `Metrics only` shows events only from the [Generate Logs-Based Metrics][9] processor.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Use the **All telemetry** dropdown menu to view `Logs only` or `Metrics only` events. `Metrics only` shows events only from the [Generate Logs-Based Metrics][9] processor.
```

    - For more information on creating queries, see [Search Syntax for Logs][6] or [Search Syntax for Metrics][7].
1. (Optional) Enter a capture duration (in seconds or minutes) for how long you want events to be captured.
    - Minimum duration (default, if no duration is specified): 30 seconds
    - Maximum duration: 300 seconds (5 minutes)
1. Click **Capture**.

### Import your own sample data for a simulation

To import sample data for your pipeline simulation:

1. For an inactive or draft pipeline, if the pipeline does not have saved data, click **Import Data**. Otherwise, click the down arrow next to **Live Capture** and select **Import Sample Data**.
1. In the modal, drag and drop your sample data files or browse for them, or click the **Paste** tab to paste your sample data. **Note**: Sample data must be in a JSON or JSONL file. See [Sample file import specifications](#sample-file-import-specifications) for more details.
1. Click **Confirm**.

#### Sample file import specifications

##### JSON sample data format

When you import sample data in JSON format, the data must be:

- Structured as a set of JSON objects wrapped in an array

> - Comma separated between each log event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Comma-separated between each log event
```

    - **Run a simulation up to a specific processor group**: Keep the **End-to-End Preview** toggle disabled to see the result of logs transformed by all processors in the current processor group and the prior processor groups. See [Run a simulation up to a specific processor group](#run-a-simulation-up-to-a-specific-processor-group) for more information.
    - **Run an end-to-end preview simulation**: Enable the **End-to-End Preview** toggle to run a simulation through all processor groups and see the data that is sent to the destination. See [End-to-end preview](#end-to-end-preview) for more information.
  {{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_end_to_end_toggle.png" alt="The End-to-End Preview toggle on the Pipeline Simulation page." style="width:100%;" >}}
1. Click **Preview** at the bottom of the processors panel to run the simulation.
  {{< img src="observability_pipelines/pipeline_simulation/pipeline_simulation_preview.png" alt="The Preview button at the bottom of the processors panel." style="width:60%;" >}}
1. After the simulation is complete, you can:
    - See the log data that the processor received and sent out.

>     - Enter a free text search query to find specific logs that were captured. The query searches all attributes and tags in the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enter a free-text search query to find specific logs that were captured. The query searches all attributes and tags in the logs.
```
